.. _sed-weight:

SED weights
========================

SED template is one of the free parameters used in the model fitting
by Phosphoros. The SED axis consists in a discrete set of SEDs that
map what is actually a continuous multi-dimensional space (e.g., the
colors space). For each SED, Phosphoros computes a weight that
quantifies the information brought by the SED with respect to the
other SEDs of the library (for example, if the library contains two
identical SEDs, their weights will be reduced by a factor
two). Weights are then taken into account in projecting
likelihood/posterior distributions.

Let's see how SED weights are computed (a more detailed explaination
can be found in the Phosphoros Paper :cite:`PP22`). Given a set of
filters, for each SED template we can compute all colors associated to
the filters. In this way, any SED is mapped to a set of continuous
values.  A distance between SEDs can be therefore straightforwardly
defined in the colors space. Based on it, the *area of influence* of a
SED in the colors space is defined as the volume of the hypercube with
side equal to the maximum distance found between two SEDs. The SED
weight is then defined by the volume uniquely covered by a SED
(volumes are normalized such that a completely separated SED would
have a volume of 1).


SED weights with GUI 
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

In the ``3. Priors`` sub-panel of the ``Compute Redshifts`` panel,
users can add or discard SED weights in the redshift computation by
clicking on the ``Add SED's weights computation`` control.


SED weights with CLI
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

SED weights can be computed in the CLI using the
``compute_sed_weights`` (or ``CSW``) action. Phosphoros reads by
default the configuration file::

   > $PHOSPHOROS_ROOT/config/PhosphorosComputeSedWeight.conf 

The configuration file for this action can be generated by the GUI
clicking on ``Save Config. File`` in the ``Compute Redshifts`` panel
(providing the ``Add SED's weights computation`` option is selected,
see above).

An example of configuration file is::

  SED-Weight-Output=<output file>
  catalog-type=Quickstart
  model-grid-file=Grid_QuickStart_MADAU.dat 
  
  filter-name=Quickstart/H
  filter-name=Quickstart/J
  filter-name=Quickstart/Y
  filter-name=Quickstart/g
  filter-name=Quickstart/i
  filter-name=Quickstart/r
  filter-name=Quickstart/vis
  filter-name=Quickstart/z

The output file containing the SED weights is located by default in
``AuxiliaryData/GenericPriors/SedWeight/``. The location can be
changed including the relative path with respect to this directory.

The name of the input model-grid file is provided by the
``model-grid-file`` option. If the path is not included, the file is
expected in the directory ``IntermediateProducts/<catalog
type>/ModelGrids/``.

The filters to use for the SED-weight computation can be indicated one
by one as above. Alternatively, users can select all the filters
present in a given directory (or group) using the option
``filter-group=<directory name>`` (where the directory is expected to
be below ``AuxiliaryData/Filters/``). Filters can be also excluded
from a group by ``filter-exclude=<filter name>``.

.. warning::

   SED weights will be applied in the redshift computation only if the
   name of the SED-weight output file is provided to the
   ``compute_redshifts`` action through the option::

     generic-grid-prior=<sed-weights output file name>


