.. _cli_mode:

The Command Line Interface (CLI) execution mode
======================================================

The Phosphoros software can be executed with the command line interface
(CLI). After starting Phosphoros (see the :ref:`Download and
Installation <phosphoros-install>` section), any Phosphoros process is
launched with the ``Phosphoros`` main command. The syntax is as
follows::

   > Phosphoros <action> <action parameters>  

where

**action**: is a keyword which refers to a specific Phosphoros executable |br|

**action parameters**: refers to the options related to the action (executable) |br|

The Phosphoros command (without parameters or with ``--help``) shows
the available actions::

   > Phosphoros

A help message for each available ``action`` can be displayed with::

  > Phosphoros <action> --help

Actions have a long and a short name, e.g. ``compute_model_grid`` or
``CMG``.
  
.. _config-file-usage:

Configuration files
----------------------------------

The list of options (``action parameters``) for a comand line
(``action``) can be quite long. The best option is to use a
configuration file, i.e. a file that includes:

  1. all the action parameters required to run the Phosphoros
     executable;

  2. the action parameters that users want to modify with respect to
     the default values.

A configuration file is provided to Phosphoros with the generic
``config-file`` option::

  > Phosphoros <action> --config-file=<path>/<filename>

where ``<path>`` refers to the path with respect to the directory
where the action is launched. For example, the following command will
compute the grid of models using the
``PhosphorosComputeModelGrid.conf`` configuration file located in the
``config`` directory::

  > Phosphoros CMG --config-file=Phosphoros/config/PhosphorosComputeModelGrid.conf

We suggest ``.conf`` as extension in configuration files, although it
is not mandatory (the software will accept any other specified
extension).

Users can copy the system configuration files and modify them, but the
most convenient approach is to use the |GUI| to output configuration
files. The GUI can be conveniently used to enter all options in an
interactive mode and to save them in configuration files at the
``$PHOSPHOROS_ROOT/conf`` location. Configuration files produced with
the GUI can also be copied, pasted and edited for small changes.

.. note::
   
   Any command line option takes precedence over the equivalent option
   provided through a configuration file.

If not specified by the user, Phosphoros first looks for configuration
files into the default directory::

 > $PHOSPHOROS_ROOT/config

and it will use configuration files that match the **exact expected
names** (see sections below). When Phosphoros cannot find the
appropriate file there, it will pick up the system configuration files
located at::

  > /path_to_PhosphorosCore_installation_directory/conf/PhzExecutables/

.. _installation-dir:
  
The ``/path_to_PhosphorosCore_installation_directory`` path will vary
in different system installations. Use the following shell command to
find the installation directory::

  > find / "conf/PhzExecutables" -name "PhosphorosComputeRedshifts.conf" 2>/dev/null

Under the Docker container this is simply ``/usr/share/``.

..      > find / -name "PhzExecutables" 2>/dev/null

.. _mapping-cli:
      
Mapping filters to column names
--------------------------------------------

In order to map filter trasmission curve files to catalog column
names, Phosphoros reads an ASCII file named ``filter_mapping.txt``,
located in the following directory::

  > $PHOSPHOROS_ROOT/IntermediateProducts/<Catalog Type>/

This file contains the filename of filter transmission curves, and the
corresponding column names of flux and flux error inside the input
catalog (see :ref:`filter-mapping` in the ``File Format Reference``
chapter for more details).

The ``filter_mapping.txt`` file is needed by the ``compute_redshift``
action (see below). It can be easily generated by the GUI or created
by the user, providing it is located at the right place in the
Phosphoros directory structure.

.. _PhosphorosComputeModelGrid_configuration_section:

Generating the grid of models
------------------------------------------------

The photometry model grid can be generated using the
``compute_model_grid`` (or simply ``CMG``) action, which calls the﻿
PhosphorosComputeModelGrid C++ executable. The list of command line
options can be displayed as follows::

 > Phosphoros compute_model_grid  (or CMG)  --help

The easiest way to proceed is to provide action parameters through a
configuration file. Phosphoros reads by default the following file::

   > $PHOSPHOROS_ROOT/config/PhosphorosComputeModelGrid.conf 

A complete and fully documented ``PhosphorosComputeModelGrid.conf``
file is available as part of the installed software in the following
location below the installation directory (see :ref:`here <installation-dir>`)::

  > /path_to_PhosphorosCore_installation_directory/conf/PhzExecutables/

Configuration files, different from the default one, can be selected
through the ``--config-file`` option (we remind that the Phosphoros
GUI can be used to save the parameter space specifications in a
configuration file).

Let's see an example of configuration file for the ``CMG`` action::

    phosphoros-root=/home/phosphoros/Phosphoros
    thread-no=6

    catalog-type=Challenge2

    filter-name=DECAM/g
    filter-name=DECAM/i
    filter-name=DECAM/r
    filter-name=DECAM/z
    filter-name=EUCLID_DC1/vis
    filter-name=vista/H
    filter-name=vista/J
    filter-name=vista/Y

    igm-absorption-type=MADAU

    output-model-grid=Grid_Chalenge2_Parameter_Space_1_MADAU.dat

    sed-group-Elliptical Galaxies=CosmosEll
    sed-name-Elliptical Galaxies=CosmosSp/S0_A_0

    sed-group-Spiral Galaxies=CosmosSp
    sed-exclude-Spiral Galaxies=CosmosSp/S0_A_0

    sed-group-Star Burst Galaxies=CosmosSB

    reddening-curve-name-Elliptical Galaxies=calzetti

    reddening-curve-name-Spiral Galaxies=SMC_prevot

    reddening-curve-name-Star Burst Galaxies=SB_calzetti

    ebv-value-Elliptical Galaxies=0.000000 
    ebv-value-Elliptical Galaxies=0.100000 

    ebv-range-Spiral Galaxies=0.000000 0.050000 0.010000
    ebv-range-Spiral Galaxies=0.050000 0.300000 0.050000
    ebv-range-Spiral Galaxies=0.300000 1.000000 0.100000

    ebv-range-Star Burst Galaxies=0.000000 0.050000 0.010000
    ebv-range-Star Burst Galaxies=0.050000 0.300000 0.050000
    ebv-range-Star Burst Galaxies=0.300000 1.000000 0.100000

    z-range-Elliptical Galaxies=0.000000 6.000000 0.050000

    z-range-Spiral Galaxies=0.000000 6.000000 0.050000

    z-range-Star Burst Galaxies=0.000000 6.000000 0.050000

In the first part of the list we find generic specifications such as the
phosphoros root directory, the name of the catalog type, the name of
filter files, etc.

The parameter space specification starts with the SED template
specification. The syntax ``sed-group-Elliptical Galaxies=CosmoEll``
means that the ``Elliptical Galaxies`` group contains all SED
templates found in the ``CosmoEll`` directory. With the prefix
``sed-name-``, a single SED (here ``CosmosSp/S0_A_0``) is also added
to that group.

A particular SED can be excluded from a group with the prefix
``sed-exclude-``, as shown in the above example.

Reddening curve specifications follow the same syntax as SED
templates, with the prefix ``reddening-curve-``.

.. note::

   The same SED template or reddening curve can be contained in
   multiple groups, provided that there are no grid cells with the
   same model parameters.

.. note::

   By default, the model grid output is a binary file. However, it can
   be written in ASCII by setting the option
   ``--output-model-grid-format=TEXT`` (see
   :ref:`output_files_format`).
   
As shown in the example, the :math:`E_{(B-V)}` and redshift
specifications for each SED group are entered using the following
prefixes::

    ebv-value-*
    ebv-range-*
    z-value-*
    z-range-*

The ``*value-*`` prefix must be followed by a single value, but it can
be repeat multiple times with different values (in the example,
:math:`E_{(B-V)}` values for the ``Elliptical Galaxies`` group are 0
and 0.1). The ``*range-*`` prefix must be completed with ``start,
stop, step`` triplets. Multiple ranges of values are allowed providing
they do not overlap.

.. _compute-redshift-cli:

Computing Redshifts
---------------------------------------

Photometric redshifts are computed by the ``compute_redshift`` (or
``CR``) action, which calls the PhosphorosComputeRedshift C++
executable. Again, the list of command line options can be displayed
through the ``--help`` option.

Action parameters can be passed with a configuration file through the
``--config-file`` action parameter. If not specified, Phosphoros reads
by default the configuration file ::

    > $PHOSPHOROS_ROOT/config/PhosphorosComputeRedshift.conf 

A complete and fully documented PhosphorosComputeRedshift.conf is
available as part of the installed software in the following location
below the installation directory (see :ref:`here
<installation-dir>`)::

    /path_to_PhosphorosCore_installation_directory/conf/PhzExecutables/PhosphorosComputeRedshift.conf

A configuration file for the PhosphorosComputeRedshif executable can
be generated by the Phosphoros GUI using the ``Get Config. File``
button in the ``Compute Redshift`` panel (see the
:ref:`computing-redshifts` section).

Here below, an example of configuration file::

   phosphoros-root=/home/phosphoros/Phosphoros 
   catalog-type=Challenge2
   
   cosmology-hubble-constant=67.74
   cosmology-omega-lambda=0.6911
   cosmology-omega-m=0.3089
   
   input-catalog-file=Challenge2TrainingSmallCatalog.fits
   missing-photometry-flag=-99 
   enable-upper-limit=NO

   model-grid-file=Grid_Chalenge2_Parameter_Space_1_MADAU.dat
   
   phz-output-dir=/home/phosphoros/Phosphoros/Results/Challenge2/Challenge2TrainingSmallCatalog
   source-id-column-name=OBJECT_ID  
   output-catalog-format=FITS
   output-pdf-normalized=YES 
   output-pdf-format=VECTOR-COLUMN
   create-output-best-likelihood-model=NO
   create-output-best-model=YES
   axes-collapse-type=BAYESIAN
   likelihood-axes-collapse-type=MAX


The configuration file requires three main information:

#. the cosmological parameter values, needed to transform
   luminosities to fluxes and viceversa;

#. the name of the input catalog (with specifications for missing
   data and upper limits) and of the model grid file (if they are not
   in the standard directories, see :ref:`directory_howto_section`);

#. the directory where the output catalog will be located, plus some
   specifications about what outputs are computed and stored, and
   their format. The name of the output catalog is by default
   ``phz_cat``, with the extension according to the selected format.

The configuration file for the ``compute_redshift`` action can be much
more complex than the one shown here when advanced functionalities of
Phosphoros are applied (such as priors, Galactic absorption
correction, etc.). Action parameters for these funtionalities will be
described in the :ref:`Advanced Features <user-manual-advanced>`
chapter.






